Enough about backgrounds, gradients and images, let's talk about filters.
What is a filter?
Here is a div element, doesn't have any content but let's say it has some styles that turn it into a
box we can see, by adding a background color,
brown maybe
and also width and height, left out here
but let's say it has this, then we would see a box which looks like that.
Now we can add a filter with the filter property and use one of the pre-defined filter functions to change
the look of that element and its content,
for example the blur filter would take a pixel value and would blur the box.
That is what filters are,
they allow us to change the visual appearance of an element by applying a filter, like blurring, grayscale
or changing the contrast. A list of all available filters can be found in the last lecture of this module
but for now, let's simply see a filter in action. Here I'm on the MDN page for the filter property and
there, you actually see all the available filter functions and how to configure them.
You can easily add shadows, change the brightness or invert the colors, change the opacity with filters,
so therefore filters are a quick and easy way of changing the visuals of something and you can
also apply more than one filter as you can see.
Now let's simply see this in action and let's apply a filter,
I want to do this on our packages page, there if you go to our app, packages, we got a background
image already,
now that background image could receive a tiny filter. To see that filter however, I'll
first of all change the positioning to center/cover so that we can see more of the image,
Now we see it's actually a quite colorful image with that green plant.
now let's remove some of that color and let's add a tiny grayscale.
You could of course also blur it
but that might be hard to your eyes in the end.
So let's add a tiny grayscale and for that, in the packages.css file on the background class selector,
I'll add the filter property
and here I'll use the built-in grayscale function.
Again you can see a list of all available function in that resource attached to the next lecture or
you find in the next lecture. The grayscale function takes a percentage, defining how much we want to
turn it to grey,
100% is the maximum.
If we enter that and we reload, we got a fully grayscale image as a background.
We can do that but I don't want to go as far, so maybe 40% looks good here.
So if we take 40% and we reload, now we still got some color but it's a little bit more grayish
and of course feel free to play around with that and possibly add more filters to other parts of this
app if you want to.
This is how easy you can use the filter property, as you can see, really not that difficult to use.
Now one important word about compatibility,
if you scroll down to the end of that MDN article about the filter where you see plenty of examples
by the way, if you do scroll down to the very bottom, you'll see the browser compatibility and there, you
see that basic support for filters is missing in Internet Explorer,
it's available in Edge but not in the Internet Explorer.
So if you still have to support that, you might not be able to use filter
or you have to use a polyfill or implement some other fallback or only use filter in cases where
it doesn't matter if it doesn't get applied, where it just enhances the look but doesn't do something
it absolutely depends on.
So this is the filter property, browser compatibility is something to keep in mind but other than that,
it's awesome.